Update to the bulkdata documentation (#2052)
IBM/FHIR: docs/src/pages/guides/FHIRServerUsersGuide.md

database hostname or database schema name.

## 4.10 Bulk data operations
The IBM FHIR Server implements bulk data export according to the [HL7 FHIR BulkDataAccess IG: STU1](http://hl7.org/fhir/uv/bulkdata/STU1/export/index.html), and bulk data import is implemented according to the [Proposal for $import Operation](https://github.com/smart-on-fhir/bulk-import/blob/master/import.md).

There are 2 modules involved:

- fhir-operation-bulkdata
- fhir-bulkdata-webapp   

The *fhir-operation-bulkdata* module implements the REST APIs for bulk data export, import and status as FHIR Operations.  There are five operations:

| Operation | Path |
|-----|-----|

> | ExportOperation| system `$export` |
> | PatientExportOperation| Patient `Patient/$export` |
> | GroupExportOperation| Group `Group/UUID/$export` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| ExportOperation| system `$export` |
| PatientExportOperation| Patient `Patient/$export` |
| GroupExportOperation| Group `Group/[id]/$export` |
```

| ImportOperation | import resources using the system endpoint, `$import` |
| StatusOperation | polling status for import and export `$bulkdata-status` |

Each operation queues a job with the Open Liberty JavaBatch framework. Each job instance unit-of-work is executed as a job with the *fhir-bulkdata-webapp* module. There are 5 JavaBatch jobs defined in the *fhir-bulkdata-webapp* module for the above 3 export operations and 1 import operation:

| Java Batch Job | Operation |
|-----|-----|
| FhirBulkExportChunkJob| `$export` |
| FhirBulkExportFastJob| `$export` |
| FhirBulkExportPatientChunkJob| `Patient/$export` |

> | FhirBulkExportGroupChunkJob| `Group/UUID/$export` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| FhirBulkExportGroupChunkJob| `Group/[id]/$export` |
```

| FhirBulkImportChunkJob | `$import` |

The *fhir-bulkdata-webapp* module is a wrapper for the whole BulkData web application, which is the build artifact - fhir-bulkdata-webapp.war. This web archive is copied to the `apps/` directory of the liberty server. The feature is configured using the `configDropins/default/bulkdata.xml`, such as:

```xml
<webApplication id="fhir-bulkdata-webapp" location="fhir-bulkdata-webapp.war" name="fhir-bulkdata-webapp">
    <classloader privateLibraryRef="configResources,fhirUserLib"/>
    <application-bnd>
        <security-role id="users" name="FHIRUsers">
            <group id="bulkUsersGroup" name="FHIRUsers"/>
        </security-role>
    </application-bnd>
</webApplication>
```

The Bulk Data web application writes the exported FHIR resources to an IBM Cloud Object Storage (COS), any Amazon S3-Compatible bucket (e.g, Amazon S3, minIO etc), or directory as configured in the per-tenant server configuration under `fhirServer/bulkdata`. The following is an example configuration for bulkdata; please refer to section 5 for the detailed description of these properties:

> ``` json

Reviewer: the new config is so much better :-)

To import using the `$import` operation with `https`, one must additionally configure the `fhirServer/bulkdata/validBaseUrls`. For example, if one stores bulk data at `https://test-url1.cos.ibm.com/bucket1/test.ndjson` and `https://test-url2.cos.ibm.com/bucket2/test2.ndjson` you must specify both baseUrls in the configuration:

```json
    "validBaseUrls": [
        "https://test-url1.cos.ibm.com/bucket1",
        "https://test-url2.cos.ibm.com/bucket2"
    ]
```

These base urls are not checked when using cloud object store and bulk-import. If you need to disable the validBaseUrls feature you may add `fhirServer/bulkdata/storageProviders/(source)/disableBaseUrlValidation` as `true`.

> For Bulk Data import, the `fhirServer/bulkdata/core/maxInputs` is used to configure a maximum number of inputs supported by the instance. The default number is 5. There is a hard character limit on the total input type and url must be under 4096 characters, as such the configuration may be tuned for each url scheme.

Reviewer: its still ugly, but at least its documented

For the Import Operation, the polled status includes an indication of `$import` and the location of the OperationOutcome NDJSON files and the corresponding failure and success counts.

For S3 exports, the bulk data feature may use presigned urls.  To enable presigned urls, the authentication type must be `hmac` and `fhirServer/bulkdata/storageProviders/(source)/presigned` must be `true`.  The urls become:

```
https://s3.appdomain.cloud/fhir-example/Patient_1.ndjson?X-Amz-Algorithm=AWS4-HMAC-SHA256&X-Amz-Credential=fcEXbf9cc1ac49e99eEX77%2F20210228%2Fus%2Fs3%2Faws4_request&X-Amz-Date=20210EXT160538Z&X-Amz-Expires=86400&X-Amz-SignedHeaders=host&X-Amz-Signature=5ecfc207546b9737fd38d4f0EXEX1c58f4f82976338a44c

> ```

Reviewer: how long is the presigned URL valid for?  is it configurable?

Author: 86400 seconds, it is not configurable. 
It could be... we'd just have to add a new configuration for it.

Reviewer: I think we should
1. mention that here
2. open a new issue for making it configurable

I'll work on number 2.

Author: it is

Reviewer: https://github.com/IBM/FHIR/issues/2053

Note, the deletion of an a job is split into two phases, ACCEPTED (202) response and DELETED (204).  202 is returned until the operation is stopped or removed, and then 204.

> By default, the exported `ndjson` file is configured with public access automatically and with 2 hours expiration time, the randomly generated secret in the path is used to protect the file. please note that IBM COS does not support expiration time for each single COS object, so please configure retention policy (e.g, 1 day) for the bucket if IBM COS is used. For both Amazon S3 and IBM COS, please remember that public access should never be configured to the bucket itself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the exported `ndjson` file is configured with public access automatically and with 2 hours expiration time, the randomly generated secret in the path is used to protect the file. Please note that IBM COS does not support expiration time for each single COS object, so please configure retention policy (e.g, 1 day) for the bucket if IBM COS is used. For both Amazon S3 and IBM COS, please remember that public access should never be configured to the bucket itself.
```

> Note: `fhirServer/bulkdata/storageProviders/(source)/exportPublic` can be set to "false" to disable public access. Also, *minio* doesn't support object level ACL, so access token is always needed to download the exported `ndjson` files.

Reviewer: what happens if exportPublic is false and presigned is true?  can we still download the files?

Author: presigned still works, and we can download files.  Minio doesn't use acls like this, and it still works with presigned.

Reviewer: per the previoius paragraph, I don't think IBM COS supports it either
> Please note that IBM COS does not support expiration time for each single COS object, so please configure retention policy (e.g, 1 day) for the bucket if IBM COS is used. For both Amazon S3 and IBM COS, please remember that public access should never be configured to the bucket itself.

makes me wonder if we should just retired that and recommend HMAC + presigned URLs for everyone

For more information about Liberty JavaBatch configuration, please refer to [IBM WebSphere Liberty Java Batch White paper](https://www-03.ibm.com/support/techdocs/atsmastr.nsf/webindex/wp102544).

### 4.10.1 Integration Testing
To integration test, there are tests in `ExportOperationTest.java` in `fhir-server-test` module with server integration test cases for system, patient and group export. Further, there are tests in `ImportOperationTest.java` in `fhir-server-test` module. These tests rely on the `fhir-server-config-db2.json` which specifies two storageProviders.

### 4.10.2 Export to Parquet
Version 4.4 of the IBM FHIR Server introduced experimental support for exporting to Parquet format (as an alternative to the default NDJSON export). However, due to the size of the dependencies needed to make this work, this feature is disabled by default.

To enable export to parquet, an administrator must:

> 1. make Apache Spark (version 3.0) and the IBM Stocator adapter (version 1.1) available to the fhir-bulkdata-webapp using the `/config/userlib`; and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. make Apache Spark (version 3.0) and the IBM Stocator adapter (version 1.1) available to the fhir-bulkdata-webapp by dropping the necessary jar files under `fhir-server/userlib` directory; and
```

|`fhirServer/audit/ip`|string|A string used to identify the IP address, useful to identify only one IP|
|`fhirServer/search/useBoundingRadius`|boolean|True, the bounding area is a Radius, else the bounding area is a box.|
|`fhirServer/search/useStoredCompartmentParam`|boolean|False, Compute and store parameter to accelerate compartment searches. Requires reindex using at least IBM FHIR Server version 4.5.1 before this feature is enabled |
|`fhirServer/bulkdata/enabled`| string|Enabling the BulkData operations |
|`fhirServer/bulkdata/core/api/url`|string|The URL to access the FHIR server hosting the batch web application |
|`fhirServer/bulkdata/core/api/user`|string|User for submitting JavaBatch job |
|`fhirServer/bulkdata/core/api/password`|string|Password for above batch user |
|`fhirServer/bulkdata/core/api/truststore`|string|Trust store for JavaBatch job submission |
|`fhirServer/bulkdata/core/api/truststorePassword`|string|Password for above trust store |

> |`fhirServer/bulkdata/core/api/trustAll`|boolean|Indicates calls to the local API should skip hostname verification|

Reviewer: after seeing this written out, I wonder if it should have been named `enableHostnameVerification` (or similar).  in our FHIR Client we use `fhirclient.hostnameVerification.enabled`

Author: I say we rock with it for now.  It's in 4.6.0

Reviewer: agree

> |`fhirServer/bulkdata/core/cos/partUploadTriggerSizeMB`|number|The part threshold in megabytes of the S3 object |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`fhirServer/bulkdata/core/cos/partUploadTriggerSizeMB`|number|The size, in megabytes, at which to write a "part" for multi-part uploads. The S3 API requires parts to be between 5 and 5000 MB and does not  allow more than 10,000 parts per object. |
```

> |`fhirServer/bulkdata/core/cos/objectSizeThresholdMB`|number|The threshold in megabytes of the S3 object |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`fhirServer/bulkdata/core/cos/objectSizeThresholdMB`|number|The size, in megabytes, at which to finish writing a given object. Use `0` to indicate that all resources of a given type should be written to a single object, but be aware that S3 objects can have a maximum of 10,000 parts and a maximum size of 5,000,000 MB (5 TB). |
```

> |`fhirServer/bulkdata/core/cos/objectResourceCountThreshold`|number|The resource threshold count that triggers a write to the storage provider|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`fhirServer/bulkdata/core/cos/objectResourceCountThreshold`|number|The number of resources at which to finish writing a given object. Use `0` to indicate that there is no limit to the number of resources to be written to a single object.|
```

|`fhirServer/bulkdata/useFhirServerTrustStore`|false|
|`fhirServer/bulkdata/enableParquet`|false|
|`fhirServer/bulkdata/ignoreImportOutcomes`|false|
|`fhirServer/bulkdata/enabled`|true |
|`fhirServer/bulkdata/core/api/trustAll`|false|
|`fhirServer/bulkdata/core/cos/partUploadTriggerSizeMB`|10 |

> |`fhirServer/bulkdata/core/cos/objectSizeThresholdMB`|200t |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`fhirServer/bulkdata/core/cos/objectSizeThresholdMB`|200 |
```
